Kerala Restaurant Style Green Peas Masala
Author: Maria Jose
Recipe type: Side dish, Gravy
Prep time:  10 mins Cook time:  25 mins Total time:  35 mins
Serves: 4-5
 
Ingredients
Dried green peas - 1 cup
Onion - 2 big, chopped
Ginger & garlic - 2 tsp each, chopped
Green chilli - 2-3, slit lengthwise
Turmeric powder - ½ tsp
Coriander powder - 2 tsp
Fennel powder(perumjeerakam) - ½ - 1 tsp
Tomato - 1 small or half of 1 med tomato, chopped
Med thick coconut milk - 1½ - 2 cups
Curry leaves
Coriander leaves - 1 tbsp, chopped
Oil
Salt

Instructions
Wash the dried green peas and soak them in water overnight. Drain the water and pressure cook them with 2 cups of water and salt. I cooked it for 6-7 whistles on high flame and keep it closed for 20 mins. Separate the cooked green peas and stock.
Meanwhile, heat oil in a pan. Add the chopped onions and cook till it turns golden brown. Add chopped ginger and garlic and green chilli. Let it cook for 2-3 mins. Add all the masala powders. Stir well and cook till the oil starts appearing, 3-4 mins. Add a tbsp or two of stock, just to bring the masala together. Switch off the gas and let the masala cool slightly. Grind the masala to a smooth paste, add more stock, if required, for grinding.
In the same pan (add more oil if required), cook the ground masala for a minute or two. Add curry leaves, salt and chopped tomato. Mix well. 
Add the remaining stock. Let it boil, add cooked green peas. Mix well. Add medium thick coconut milk, let it boil. Cover and cook for 5-7mins. Add chopped coriander leaves and remove from fire.

Notes
The gravy tends to thicken while it rests, so adjust the consistency to suit your taste. If you want to reduce the qty of coconut milk, pressure cook the peas with more water, so you will have more stock to make the gravy.
I've also tried this recipe, without grinding the masala. Though the taste was good, I was more happy with the consistency, when using a ground masala.
Since salt is already added to peas while cooking, be careful while adding it to the gravy.
 
